The Chevrolet Motor Division had a
representative that would visit all the dealers,
General Motors dealers, and he would check or spot
check the defective parts and the forms that were
necessary, and he'd put his name on there and okay
it. And I said, well, hell, I can do that.
They had a representative that came down from
Chevrolet Motor Division. His name was Sam O.
Smith, SOS. And some of those guys there, they
chased that same old, you know, four-letter word.
And he was a nice chap. He talked to the people
working in the parts department and everything.
So I put him over to the side and I said, I'd like to
have a job like this fellow's got that checks out
these defective points. Like, you know, I've been
here a long time, and I know that. And he says, yeah,
I can understand that, but it's the policy with
General Motors that we have somebody like that
that has a traveling job. He's got to be a college
graduate. I said, well. Why does it have to be a
college graduate? He says, well, I don't need to
know. I said, but that's the policy. And we won't
consider anybody unless they got a college
degree. I said, well, I guess I'll have to get a
college degree if I want to get a job that is
worthwhile. And that's what got me started,
wanting to get me a college degree. And then the two
of my wife's brothers who were coming over, who
were attending A&M, my wife told them about my
conversation with Sam O. Smith. And so they
encouraged me. They said, well, if you're going to
go to college, come to A&M. A&M will give what you
need, and if
you've got the ability, you've got the know-how,
you can make it. And the degree from A&M is worth a
lot. It's recognized. I said, well, that's what
I'll do.
So, I told, I told Rachel about it, and she agreed,
and that's where I started there.
Did, did anyone discourage you? Was there anyone
that? Well, yeah. Well, there was this parts
manager. I was making $300 a month. At that time, it
was a good trade. And I had a position in back of the
parts department facing the shop. And I wasn't
waiting on the general trade. I was a mechanics
parts man. I waited on them because before, the
mechanic would have to go out to the front and wait
in line, you know, until you got to it. And the boss
didn't like that. He says, these mechanics, they
got to make a living. They can't be out there
wasting their time waiting. We need a man in the
back window. And that was my job. So I told my boss
that I wanted to go to college and I needed to take
two summer courses. And he was very nice. He let me
go to class in the morning and get back over there
and work in my back window. And so I was offered a
raise if I would forget paying him. He says, we'll
pay you $400 a month if you stay. And $400 a month at
that time was good pay, see? And I turned it down.
And I said, oh. He was very disappointed. I said,
okay, okay, good luck. And we were pretty good
friends. All right, so with the G.I. Bill then, you
came up here to visit A&M. Do you remember who you
talked to? Did you talk to Mr. Heaton? No, it was
another man. Another man who was a tall, slender
fellow.
He wasn't a registrar. It was somebody else that
was reviewing on the scripts from these people.
And he was the one that told me, he says, you need to
brush up on chemistry and math. And that's about
it. I said, OK. So you went back to take those at San
Antonio College? San Antonio Junior College,
yes, sir. And so I got that ready, got that put away.
And then I had to take this test. All the students
who were coming to A&M, especially the veterans,
they had to take this test. And it was supposed to be
the equivalent to the test given all freshmen at
Ohio State University. It says, if you can pass
that test, they're not telling us whether you're
going to be able to do the work or not. I took it and I
passed it. Then I had to go to the Veterans
Administration and tell them, hey, the skids are
greased. Wait a minute. You got to take a test over
here. Another one, see. Similar to this one. Well,
I passed that one, too. Then they went ahead and
gave you the green light or something. All right.
And then you came up here looking for housing. Oh,
yes. And couldn't find anything? No. Oh, there was
a, it was a college then. The college didn't have
those facilities, see. And then all these
veterans started coming in. And, boy, they were
coming from everywhere. And so there was a
project.
They were building this village right next to the
car field. And it had a sign on there that it was
being built for the veterans, returning
veterans. And it was portable barracks. And they
put a wall in the middle and set up for two families.
They furnished a refrigerator, a cooking stove,
two beds, and all in a line. But you couldn't get one
of those at first? When you first- No, no, no. What
was your wife's feeling about your leaving your
job and going back to college? She was all for it.
She knew that this was, it was more education for
me. And it would help me. And her father, Rachel's
father, believed in education because he came
from Mexico, and the school facilities there were
nonexistent. And he knew that if you didn't have an
education, all you could be was a cotton picker,
say, or a grave digger. And he stressed education
to his 14 children. before they all got a college
education. So my wife says, I haven't got all my
education, but I want it and I want to get it some
way. And so she encouraged me to go. So you came up
here in the fall of 1949? Yes. And how did you, did
you drive up in your car? Yes. What did you bring
with you? What kind of belongings? What clothing
and everything? Well, there wasn't much to talk
about. I had just regular civilian clothes and I,
there was at the time, first of all they didn't have
the room, you know. And secondly, I was always
harassing the freshmen at the annex or at the Brown
Air Force Base. a great number of vacant military
barracks. And that's where we were at. Now they had
all the veterans in one area, and all the regular
high school kids had just got out in another area,
and the band had another area. About how many
veterans were there? Well, there was about three.
three barracks and there was about ten, twenty,
there must have been about between forty and fifty
veterans. Right. And did you all live in bunks or
did you have separate rooms? No, no. There was no?
No, we had what do you call them? upper no yeah two
bucks did you veterans chuckle that this was like
going back to the war uh because you'd been through
no it was a matter of fact uh they didn't like to
discuss it you know and uh so we never talked about
it you know we just had to study and there was no uh No
time to shoot the bull. Did you, did you wear
uniforms? No. Or you veterans wore civilian
clothes? That's right. They figured that we had
already served. But, but I wanted to wear, I wanted
to get into the Corps of Cadets. And at that time,
they wanted students to get into the Corps and then
eventually get their commission as second
lieutenants. Well, I never dreamed of that. I just
wanted to be in the Corps, and I wanted to wear boots
in my senior year. So I went to see Colonel Volkner,
Hayden L. Volkner. I says, Colonel, I like the
Corps, and I'd like to get in. Well, he says, how old
are you? I'm 32.
I don't think it would get you in. See, he was
thinking of the commission. I wasn't. But I was too
dumb to tell him, I don't want no commission. I just
want to be in the Corps. He says, we're going to
Fourth Army. I want to get, see if I can get you a
waiver. Well, about a couple of weeks later, he
said, nope. Go see Colonel Boat. And he says, I'm
sorry, but I've got a response to my letter, and it
says that it would not be in the best interest of the
Army. I'm sorry. So I thanked him and went out. And
then
there was some guys from Mexico, and they were in
the band. And since they were Mexican citizens,
they couldn't qualify for commissions. How the
hell did you get into the court?" I said, no, we're
not in the court, we're in the band. And then we get
to wear the uniform. I said, I wish I had known how to
play an instrument or something. So they were in
the court, so to speak, by being in the band and
playing an instrument. And I noticed there were
students from just about everywhere. I mean,
foreign countries. And there was, I remember the
people from India, they had the wives, you know,
and they, you know, of course there were, what do
you call it? I don't know, that little dot on their
forehead. It's a dot. Okay. And so we befriended a
couple of those fellas. And
there were students majoring in some form of
agriculture. Now, what did you plan to major in
when you got here? I was going to go take agronomy.
Agronomy? Agronomy, none of the husbandry. And
what were you planning, what were you dreaming of
doing when you graduated? Well, either work for
A&M, or be placed in one of these experimental
stations. Because you didn't plan to be a rancher
yourself. No, no, no, no. I had no ranching
experience. Describe the route. As you move in,
did anybody attempt to haze you veterans? No. They
left you all alone? No, as a matter of fact, As a
matter of fact, I befriended all those freshman
cadets. And some of them would like to take off on
like a Saturday night or Sunday and tank up on beer.
They had to get across the bridge, remember?
Worcester Bridge? And they'd say, hey, Gunsy, you
don't drink deal. I said, no, I don't drink deal.
listen, you want to go out and will you drive us
back? Yeah. So I got in with them, see? And it was
then that I learned that they kept these old
quizzes in those little apple boxes, see? So I had
access to those, see? That's a pretty good swamp.
That was a good swamp, see? So whenever we were
going, we were having, let's take American
history. have an A quiz. Well we don't know what the
Pope's going to ask. And I forget the
professor's name. And they had them by names you
see. This is the test that this professor. So we
reviewed them. And we'd get together at the table
somewhere and we'd mention these things. Well
he's going to ask this. He said this, he's going to
ask that. And we were ready, you see, for when the
time came to go to class. And he would pass the forms
out, and we were ready for them. Describe class
day. What time did you all get up? What did you do?
Describe the whole day.
Was there a Reveille bugle that woke you up? No. No,
we had alarm clocks. I'm talking about the annex.
We had an alarm clock. And I don't remember, I'm
talking about the veterans. Now they had a church
of quarters or somebody over there in the,
the other regular students, that would cause them
to get up early and so forth. But over here with the
veterans, we just had our alarm clocks. And let's
see, you had a gang shower? A what? A gang shower.
You didn't have a private shower. Oh, yeah, yeah, a
gang shower, yeah. And we had a row of commodes.
You remember those pot crackers? whistle, you got
a name for it but I won't give it to you, you know. And
here we're sitting on the stool, you know, and some
ugly guy had the light running through him. Oh, I
tell you it was something. Who did that? I don't
know. And yes, we had regular All right, so you'd
get up, eat breakfast, then go to class, and you had
class all morning. Yes. What did you all do in the
afternoons? Study. Where did you study? Either
there or they had a place, a barracks, where it was
called study hall. But now you didn't have any
private room. Oh, no. Nothing was private. And you
hung your, where did you hang your clothes? Well,
we had a laundry, see, and we sent it out. But did you
have a locker to hang your clothes in as a kind of a
closet? No, it was just a rack. Oh, okay. And a pipe
going through and hangers. But it wasn't closed up
so you couldn't lock it? No, we had a footlocker
that you could, we had a padlock. Then at night,
where did y'all study? In the same place, same
study hall. And what did you and your friends do if
you wanted to relax at night? Where did you go for a
good time?
Well, there wasn't a good time. It would be either
down to Bryan or Caldwell. And what would you all do
in Caldwell? Well, it was wide open. And they just
did about anything. But they stayed together. And
they would go from one tavern to another. Did you
make some good friends that year? Oh, yes. Give
some examples of the friendship that you all
enjoyed.
there was this student who was Jewish, and his name
was Dennerstein. He was from Houston. And I think
his mother had a photo shop, and they had a lot of
picture frames and all this. And I remember when we
were or the freshmen, they would be given a little
booklet with some ticket stubs. That was a stub you
had to turn in to get into the mess hall to eat. So,
there was some people that didn't want to go eat in
the mess hall, and they'd go to a little snack bar
that was there, and give them tickets. And on
Thursdays we had liver. I'd be sitting next to the
dentist and he'd say, I do. Are you going to eat your
liver? No. He'd get it for anybody else without a
fart. And he had three or four big chunks of liver.
I'll never forget that. And when he'd go on leave,
go home to visit, he'd come back to his barracks.
and somebody had already taken his mattress out
and hid it somewhere. Just pranks, you know. So we
were good friends. Then there was Martin Cain. He
was from, what was it, I think it was Blue Shoe,
Texas. And they had gone out on a binge on it, and
they got drunk. And after it was over, one of the
girls was found to be pregnant. And she said it was
Martin Kane. And Martin says, hey, it wasn't me. I
was passed out. And so
the gross father found out about it. And then he
came over there to the annex with two guys. I think
they were brothers. And they went in the barracks
and took Martin Kane. by force. And it took them a
long time to get her married. Oh, brother. So then,
I don't know, the military department got wind of
it. I don't know what they did. It was too late. It
was fixed already. But the girl said, I don't want
nothing. I just want to give the baby a name. was
already scheduled. I say scheduled. He was going
to marry a girl already. And good night. The girl
found out about what had happened, and that
wedding was just below proportion. And he
finished his first year, but he didn't come back
the second year. So he disappeared. The last I
heard, he went out with a close friend of his that
was a driller. But he didn't drill for oil. He
drilled for water wells. I don't know, whatever.
And then, let me see, he was born in King, and...
I'm just about to...
There were the Casa twins. They were from Laredo.
Casa? Caso. Caso. C-A-S-S-O.
And their parents had a wholesale grocery
business. You know, they had a big warehouse, and
they would supply their grocery. And they were
twins. And they were always doing something out of
the ordinary. And they'd get drowned out. You know
what I mean? Okay. And I'll never forget that. We
were friends, you know, but not close. Then there
was Organdigie from Laredo. And his daddy had a
wholesale oil operation. He was a dealer, and he
supplied service stations with oil. And so, we
weren't trouble. Good friends, and that's... Did
those young Aggie freshmen right out of high
school ever turn to you older guys for advice? No.
Not me anyway. So you veterans kind of stuck
together, and who were some of the teachers,
counselors from that first year that you
remember? Well, it was Boss Hamilton. Dirty shirt
Nelson. Screaming owl. Screaming owl Nelson. Oh,
let me see. Oh, gosh. Did you have Happy Harry
Hearth in English? No. Harrison Hearth? No. This
was a man. Well, yeah. I can't think of his name
right now. It escapes me. What were the toughest
courses that first year for you? That first year,
the toughest was math.
But you passed everything. Yes. Passed
everything. Oh, yeah. How often did you go back
home to San Antonio?
I didn't have a set. Whenever the opportunity
arose, I would go. Usually, like every other
weekend, and I'd leave like on Saturday afternoon
and get back Sunday, Sunday night. So I had to go
Monday class. Did you go to Aggie football games
that freshman, that first year? No. So you didn't
get involved in the... I didn't get involved, no.
Was there a,
let's see, a bonfire? Did you help? No. That first
year, no. We were confined, to lack of a better
word, to the annex. And no silver taps? No silver
taps, no. Not until my wife joined me later. Then I
would get a a ticket or two to maybe go to one or two
games and uh. Right and so you did well that first
year and then that that next summer what did you do
in the summer of 1950? Did you go back to work or? Oh
yeah. Yes sir. Yeah I had to build on that um yeah
I've been I had a wife and I had a little boy, and so.
Right, so then you came back here with your wife in
the fall of 1950. How did y'all locate, how were you
able to get that apartment over in College View?
What did you have to go through to? I didn't, I just,
you know, applied and uh they said uh we've got a
place for you over there at the college view would
you like that hey yeah it's very good what i'm
living in over here so uh it was it was better and so
you you brought her and how old was your youngster
then oh he was uh Close to five. Okay. And what
furniture did you bring? None. None. None. Oh, it
was furnished? Yeah. Oh. Yeah, yeah. You see, we
had two beds. We had a refrigerator. We had a stove.
And
there were showers in there, and so we, it was, We
didn't go for the sofas and fancy. Just the bare
necessities. All right. Did you sell your house in
San Antonio? Yes. Yeah, I had bought a house, a
small frame house in San Antonio, and got a bank
loan, which was authorized by the VA, and it was at
four percent interest. Unheard of. When you sold
that house and came here, do you remember how much
money you brought with you that second year? No, I
don't remember exactly how much. I must have had
about $400 or $500, something like that. And the
rent at College View was $30? Yeah, $30 a month. Did
that include utilities? Yes. Yes. All right, so
you moved in. How soon before you all made friends
with your neighbors? Almost immediately.
Everybody was friendly and everybody that was
there was there for the same purpose that I was
there. Hey, we're in the same boat, so let's...
Describe some of them. Because I'm assuming this
was a very, in today's words, a diverse group of
people. Well, you could call it that. We didn't
pick the barracks. We didn't pick the friends. He
says, you go to barracks number so-and-so, and you
take apartment so-and-so, which is upstairs or
downstairs. So it just happened that the
immediate friends there their husbands were
studying to be a doctor of veterinary medicine,
vets. And this building that when you're coming in
and you turn around, used to be the U.S. Department
of Agriculture, now it's got another name. And
there used to be one of those vet majors that was He
did janitor work in that building, and I wanted
that job because he was ready to graduate. Now I
already had this plan, somebody else is going to
have it. And so these veterans,
all they did was study. They had no place. And there
was Louis Springer. He was from Virginia.
I'll tell you about this.
Lewis Springer, Wallace Lawson, Everett Beach.
Yeah, Wallace Lawson, Houston, San Antonio, and
Everett D. Besch. That guy, he had a cubby hole in
his apartment. And he was there all the time,
except when he was going to go eat or go to the
bathroom. He went there to study? I went there to
study.